so it's smaller than half a football
field just a fifth of a manhattan city
block
and well over 100 people living there
from a distance
mcgingo island looks like a desolate
rocky chunk on lake victoria
but zoom in closer a little more and
you'll see that grey color isn't rocks
it's rooftops 131 people live on this
one half acre piece of land
doesn't sound like much of a crowd after
all they'd fit into one
modestly sized movie theater auditorium
but the compactness more than doubles
the most densely populated city in the
world mumbai india
most of the island is covered with rocks
there's barely any vegetation growing
there
say for a tiny patch of green grass with
a couple small
trees growing on it but no need for
gardening
this island is all about fish locals
make a fortune on catching and selling
nile perch
when you get paid by the pound a massive
fish species that can grow
six feet long and weigh upwards of 250
pounds
equals a gold mine people here make
three times what they would on the
mainland
with money to spend businesses quickly
popped up on the island as well
stores sell everything from food to any
fishing supplies you might need
but most of the inhabitants earnings
goes toward the limited entertainment
they have
cafes dice pools hotels there might not
be a hospital or a school
but there is a hair salon and two tailor
shops
most of the buildings are made from
steel sheets especially on the high
street
there are also some makeshift huts in
the alleyways
there's only one sturdy brick building
it houses the boat engines
one of the most serious problems are the
heavy rains that happen
pretty much every night it's not good
for the poorly equipped boats
some 20 years ago the island was almost
entirely
uninhabited but by the 2010s the
population had reached a critical 130
people for its tiny territory
there's literally no room to build any
more houses
still there are no official records so
some sources even claim to have counted
about
500 people living there in 2009
magingo may be the most densely
populated but it's not the smallest
inhabited island on the planet
you see not all tiny spots of land
poking out of the water
are given official island status the
definition for that was set back in 1851
to be considered an island it should
either be inhabited
or have enough grass for at least one
sheep to graze
that's about two acres bishop rock
a part of the isles of silly southwest
of england
may not have any grass for a sheep to
feed on but it can fit some people in
its 880 square yards
that's a little bigger than a basketball
court almost two centuries ago in 1847
they decided to build a lighthouse on
the lonesome rock
the whole construction process was
tricky the workers could barely find
space to step on the completed tower was
made of steel
but never shined that first light it got
washed away in 1850
the second try was more successful they
built this one from stone
and it lit up successfully in 1858 over
a decade
after the idea was first brought forth
that structure still stands today
though it's had plenty of renovations
over the years
luckily they never had to build one out
of sticks then it would have been called
the three little pigs lighthouse
nah not really the first floor holds a
fresh water tank for the lighthouse
workers
then you go up to the entrance room with
a metal door that takes the full force
of the atlantic on a regular basis
climb further to the third floor and you
see a storage room
the next two levels are oil rooms a must
have to keep the lamp on top of the
structure lit
the sixth floor has a living room
bedrooms on the seventh floor
next another storage room then a service
room on the ninth
and finally the tenth floor is where
you'll find the main lamp
any lighthouse needs a keeper so they
moved into the place in 1858
that meant that bishop rock was no
longer uninhabited
just like that it became britain's
smallest island
it still holds a guinness record as the
world's smallest island with a building
on it
now imagine you're the keeper how would
you spend your free time
because here's what you can't do on the
island 1.
play football tennis soccer or anything
else that requires a ball
it'll end up in the sea in no time but
hey you already have a keeper
two go for a morning run or walk your
only cardio will probably be
going up and down the stairs three
invite some friends over
hey you can barely step on the island by
yourself
well no need to convince anyone to take
the job today the island is back to
uninhabited status the lighthouse has
been automated since 1992.
for real introverts there are a thousand
islands you can choose to build your
house on
seriously i'm talking about the thousand
islands region
on the upper st lawrence river if the
name rings a bell
yes this is where the salad dressing
originates
they say only four people who live there
know the real recipe
and the stuff you buy at the store isn't
legit thousand island dressing
it's only 999 island dressing or
something
anyway one of the islets in the
archipelago
is called just room enough the name
speaks for itself
there's just enough room for one house
and one tree
also known as hub island it's the
tiniest inhabited one
not only in the archipelago but in the
whole world
there's actually a local convention
regulating if a sandy dot can be counted
as part of the thousand islands group
the criteria are pretty simple
one the island no matter what its size
should be above
river level all year round and two
the island must be able to sustain two
trees or shrubs
now back in the fifties a family bought
hub island built a small house there and
planted a tree
if their plan was to have a secret
getaway property well that's not what
ended up happening
their cottage became quite popular for
tourists cruising the river
with only 370 square yards it's less
than half the size of bishop rock island
when the tide is low one wrong step and
you're in the river
if you'd like to follow in that family's
footsteps bad news
building on islets smaller than two
acres was recently banned
the problem with these itsy bitsy
dwellings is that there's not enough
room for plumbing systems
as for one of the most remote islands
out there that would be
sowaro at all in the cook islands people
do live on this ring-shaped piece of
land in the south pacific
but it's only accessible by a private
boat
the island itself is a national park so
the two people who inhabit it are
seasonal staff not permanent residents
the population was bigger a few years
ago
because previous island keepers brought
their families with them
every five years they advertised the
position of a suarro island natural
reserve caretaker
you arrive on a barge together with six
months worth of supplies like canned
goods and water
the national park has someone accompany
the new keepers for the first day
to help them clean the island then
you're left all on your own
one memorable island inhabitant was a
guy named tom neal
he was a sailor who first docked at
suaro in 1945.
even back then he dreamed of living a
solitary life on a tropical island
and this looked like just the right spot
he didn't get permission to move there
until seven years later in 1952
that's when he became a 20th century
robinson crusoe
neil ended up staying there on and off
for over 15 years
until 1977 i think it was a friday